How to deploy awt swing application developed in java? 

Deploying a standalone AWT/Swing application is different from deploying a web application. 

It doesn't use a web server like Tomcat. 

Instead, you package your application into an executable format, typically a .jar file, 
that can be run on any machine with a Java Runtime Environment (JRE) installed.

Here is the process for deploying a full AWT/Swing application:

Step 1: Package Your Application as a JAR File
    A JAR (Java ARchive) file is a package format used to aggregate many Java class files, associated metadata, 
    and resources (like images or sound files) into one file.
        •	Using a Build Tool: The most common and recommended method is to use a build tool like Maven or Gradle. 
          These tools automate the packaging process. You would configure a plugin (like the Maven Shade Plugin or 
          the Gradle ShadowJar Plugin) to create an "executable" or "fat" JAR that includes all your application's dependencies.
        •	Using an IDE: Most modern IDEs (like IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, or NetBeans) have built-in functionality to create 
          executable JAR files. You can usually find this option under the project's build or export settings.
        •	Using the Command Line: You can also create a JAR file manually using the jar command-line tool that comes with 
          the Java Development Kit (JDK).

    # Create the JAR file
      
        jar cfe YourApp.jar YourMainClass *.class

    Here, YourApp.jar is the name of your executable JAR file, and YourMainClass is the name of your main class (the one 
    containing the main method).

Step 2: Distribute the JAR File
    Once you have your executable .jar file, you can distribute it to users.
        •	No Installer: The simplest way is to just give the user the .jar file. 
          They can then run it from the command line: java -jar YourApp.jar.
        •	Creating an Installer: For a better user experience, you can create a platform-specific installer (like a .exe for Windows 
          or a .dmg for macOS). 
          Tools like Launch4j or JSmooth can wrap your JAR file in an executable launcher, 
          which automatically sets up the JRE path and provides a more professional feel.

Step 3: Ensure Java is Installed on the Target Machine
    Your AWT/Swing application requires a Java Runtime Environment (JRE) to be installed on the user's machine.
        •	Standalone JRE: You can bundle a private JRE with your application's installer. 
          This ensures that the application will run without requiring the user to have Java installed on their system, 
          providing a smoother experience.
        •	User Responsibility: Alternatively, you can simply instruct the user to install Java themselves. 
          This is a common approach for developer tools or applications where the target audience is expected to have Java already.

In summary, the key is to package your application into an executable JAR file and ensure the target machine has a compatible JRE.
